Cow is a very famous and important domestic animal. It is known as the “Cow is our Mother” in India. 
Kids are generally assigned to write essay on cow in their classroom or exams. 
So, various types of cow essay are provided here in different words limit for your school going kids and children. 
You can select anyone of these:
Cow is our mother. It is a most important domestic animal. It gives us a very healthy and nutritious food called milk. 
It is a pet animal and many people keep her in their houses for many purposes. 
It is not a wild animal and found in many parts of the world. Everyone gives respect to the cow like a mother. 
Cow is worshiped in India as a goddess from the ancient time. People in India brings her at home as a dhan Lakshmi.
 Cow is considered as the holiest animal among all the animals. It is found in many varieties differentiating in the shape, size, colour, etc.

ow is a domestic and very successful animal. It is of great importance for the people of Hindu religion.
 It is a most important pet animal kept by almost all people of Hindu religion. It is female animal who gives us milk daily two times, in the morning and evening. Some cow gives milk three times a day according to their diet and capacity. Cow is considered by the Hindu people as a mother and called as the Gau Mata. Hindu people respect cow very much and do worship.
 Cow milk is offered to God during pooja and katha. It is also used to do abhishek of the God and Goddess statue during festivals and pooja.

Cow milk is given high status in the society as it is very beneficial to us. She gives birth to a small calf after 12 months. 
She does not give any practice to her child to walk or run, he/she starts walking and running just after the birth. Her calf drinks her milk for some days or months and starts eating food like her. Cow is a very sacred animal for all Hindus. 
It is a big domestic animal having four legs, a tail, two ear, two eyes, one nose, one mouth, one head and a wide back.